# CS-360

**Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?**
The inventory management app developed to be an easy to use means for keeping track of current inventory from a mobile decive. With an easy to use interface and and the ability to check on inventory regardless of location, as well as the inclusion of SMS notifications when stock runs low, the app was designed as a means for keeping tabs on inventory without the hastle and bloat of similar applications. 

**What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?**
When first opening the app, users will see the login screen. This screen allows for users to register and account if they do not have one or to log in if they have an account. The first time the app is used, users will move from the login screen to a screen that describes the SMS services of the app as well as detailing the standard warnings of potential data rates and messaging fees dependent on mobile carrier. After that, users will move to the main inventory screen. This screen shows a detailed list of current inventory. If the add button at the bottom of the screen is pressed, users will move to a page that allows them to enter item information. Users will be prompted to enter item ID, name, quantity, and locations. 

**How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?**
When approaching development for this project, I began by reading several online publications about increasing user engagement in apps through various means. Some of this includes using consistant color palettes and keeping necessary and frequently used buttons and interactable items within reach of the thumb. Both of these are things that I made sure to keep in mind with the project. For example, the entire app is done with a dark background and blue to purple buttons, to reduce strain on the eyes. Button are all placed well within reach of a users thumb to ensure they don't have to go out of their way in terms of normal phone usage to reach. When developing projects in the future, I will certainly be sure to remember to account for the potential users that may want to use the final product of my work. No one wants to use an app that forces them to do things out of the norm of the regular way they hold a phone or that strains their eyes to use. 

**How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?**
In order to test my code, I used the emulator provided in Android Studio. This is a fantastic feature, allowing developers to test their app across different mobile devices. The majority of my testing was done using a Google Pixel 8 as it is similar in size to most commonly used phones. Testing including the registration of a user account and the ability to log in. In addition, I tested the ability to add and remove inventory items. Initial tests showed errors with the actual inventory system where items were not added as intended. After some online research, I did eventually find how to fix that error. This proves how important the testing process is. If I was a working developer who made this app and launched it, the app would not have worked as intended in the initial form. Testing allowed me to fix the app to something that would be launchable today. 

**Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?**
SQLite was new to me in this course. When I initially designed the app, I had done so under the assumption that I would be using MongoDB or similar to develop a database outside of the app to hold necessary information. However, as the class progressed, I found that SQLite made it possible to create a database within the app and without the need of an external database. Though it took me several hours of reading and Youtube videos to learn how to implement this, I feel so much better about my own skills having learned it. 

**In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?**
I believe the part I was most successful was in user registration and logging in. Learning how to implement SQLite to store and callback to users credentials as well as the ability to determine what screen users would be sent to afterward was brand new to me in the beginning. As stated above, it was something that took me several hours to learn. However, after implementing it, I felt really good about myself and what I could do. Learning new skills like this is the biggest motivator for me in school. I love to learn new things that are possible. 

